
╭─── Claude Code v2.1.47 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│                           │ Tips for getting started                         │
│    Welcome back matti!    │ Ask Claude to create a new app or clone a repos… │
│                           │ ──────────────────────────────────────────────── │
│                           │ Recent activity                                  │
│             ✻             │ No recent activity                               │
│             |             │                                                  │
│            ▟█▙            │                                                  │
│          ▐▛███▜▌          │                                                  │
│         ▝▜█████▛▘         │                                                  │
│           ▘▘ ▝▝           │                                                  │
│                           │                                                  │
│   Opus 4.6 · Claude Max   │                                                  │
│    ~\Dev\Brain_viewer     │                                                  │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

❯ this is a fresh project, whose objective is to create a functional and    
  graphically appealing app that let the user visualize the content of the  
  knowledge graph. Some things that this should offer are: a 3D             
  visualization where every entity is a node, clickable, that when select   
  allow to show its content; the relations are represented by lines         
  connecting the nodes; the nodes are repulsive (they tend to dispose       
  themselv to maximize the relative distance within a reasonable radius);   
  the nodes are clustered by their semantic similarity. The visualizer must 
   be able to store and show in a log all the operations made to the        
  content with precise timestamp, and these information can be used to show 
   replays of the activities on the kg: nodes highlight when they are read, 
   node spawns when they are created and so the relations, everything with  
  nicely connected movements. The timescale of the replays must be tunable, 
   so the fast read or creation operation can be shown appropriately.       
  Moreover, the visualization must be able to show a "realtime mode" where  
  all the operations are showed in realtime. The user must be able to zoom, 
   pan, rotate, orbit, etc. Brainstorm to find the optimal way to develop   
  this thing.                                                               

● I'll start by checking the knowledge graph for any prior knowledge about this
  project, then launch the brainstorming skill as required.

● knowledge-graph - kg_check_pitfalls (MCP)(topic: "knowledge graph
                                           visualization 3D browser app",
                                           project_root:
                                           "C:/Users/matti/Dev/Brain_viewer")
  ⎿  Pitfalls for 'knowledge graph visualization 3D browser app' (7):

     [BLOCKING] ✓ Embeddings are NOT optional. If kg_store is called and em
     … +16 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● knowledge-graph - kg_search (MCP)(query: "3D graph visualization
                                   force-directed layout Three.js React browser
                                   app")
  ⎿  Found 49 entities for '3D graph visualization force-directed layout Th
     ree.js React browser app':
     … +24 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● No prior knowledge about this specific project in the KG. Let me launch the
  brainstorming skill as required before any creative work.

● Skill(brainstorming)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

● Let me check the current project state first.

● Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

● Explore(Explore KG MCP server schema) Sonnet 4.6
  ⎿  Backgrounded agent (↓ to manage · ctrl+o to expand)

● Good — completely empty project. Let me check what the background agent found
  about the KG server's data model.

● Task Output a5719bd
  ⎿  Task is still running…

● The background agent is still exploring the KG server code. Let me start the
  brainstorming while it works.

  Great description — you've outlined a rich feature set. Let me work through
  the key decisions one at a time.

  First question: How do you want to run this app?

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · What deployment model do you prefer for this visualizer? → 
     Standalone web app (React)

● Good — React + Vite frontend with a Python backend. Next question about the 3D
   rendering layer, which is the core of this project.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · Which 3D rendering approach for the graph? → Three.js + 
     react-three-fiber (Recommended)

● React Three Fiber it is. Now the critical data question — how the app talks to
   your knowledge graph.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · How should the app access the knowledge graph data? → Both (SQLite +
      optional MCP)

● Smart — SQLite for fast reads, MCP for live events. Let me check what the
  background agent found about the KG schema, and ask my next question in
  parallel.

● Task Output a5719bd
  ⎿  Task is still running…

● Let me find the KG server code directly while continuing with questions.

● Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · For the realtime mode, how should the app detect KG operations as 
     they happen? → SQLite polling + WAL (Recommended)

❯ are you sure the agent is not hung? It is taking very long 

● Let me stop the hung agent and find the KG code directly — I already have the
  path from the config.

● Stop Task
  ⎿  Explore KG MCP server schema · stopped

● Bash(pip show llm-harness 2>/dev/null || python -c "import llm_harness;
      print(llm_harness.__file__)" 2>/dev/null; find
      /c/Users/matti/venvs/llm_harness/Lib/site-pack…)
  ⎿  (No output)

● Searched for 3 patterns, read 2 files (ctrl+o to expand)

● Now I have the full picture of the KG schema. Let me read the rest of the
  schema to see communities and other tables.

● Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

● Excellent — I now have a complete understanding of the KG schema. Let me
  continue with the brainstorming questions.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · For the activity log and replay system, where should the event 
     history come from? → SQLite date_added fields (Recommended)

● Good — leveraging existing timestamps keeps it simple. Now the visual
  direction.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · What visual aesthetic do you want for the 3D graph? → make this 
     modular: the user can change the appearance with a button

● Love it — a theme system with switchable visual presets. One more key
  technical question.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · How should semantic clustering work? Entities need to be grouped by 
     similarity in 3D space. → both, but i add another requirements: the 
     position must be persisted, and change only due to actual nodes 
     creation, deprecations or change to the relationships: when the user 
     watch at the visualizer in two different days, the only difference 
     must be due to real database change, not to random factors

● Excellent requirement — deterministic, persisted positions. That changes the
  architecture meaningfully. I now have everything I need to present the design.
   Let me walk through it section by section.

  ---
  Section 1: Architecture overview

  The app is a two-process system. A Python FastAPI backend reads the KG's
  SQLite databases directly (read-only, WAL mode) and serves a REST + WebSocket
  API. A React + Vite + TypeScript frontend renders the 3D graph using React
  Three Fiber and connects to the backend for data and realtime events.

  The backend maintains its own sidecar SQLite database (brain_viewer.db) in the
   project directory. This stores computed node positions, layout state hashes,
  and theme preferences — never modifying the KG databases.

  Data flow: on startup, the backend reads all entities, observations,
  relations, and communities from ~/.agent/knowledge.db (global) and optionally
  {project}/.agent/knowledge.db (project scope). It computes a structural hash
  of the graph (sorted entity IDs + relation triples + community memberships).
  If this hash matches the last persisted layout, positions are served as-is. If
   the hash differs, an incremental layout update runs: only affected nodes are
  repositioned from their last stable position, using the force simulation with
  a fixed seed. The updated positions are persisted before being sent to the
  frontend.

  For realtime mode, the backend polls the KG databases every 1-2 seconds for
  rows with date_added newer than the last check. New events are pushed to the
  frontend via WebSocket, triggering animated node spawns, edge appearances, and
   highlight effects.

  Does this overall architecture feel right before I detail the layout engine
  and frontend components?

✻ Sautéed for 13m 46s

❯ we removed the project scoped .db. Why you think they are still in place? 
   Am I wrong? Check and correct me or your memory about this.              

● You're right to question this. Let me verify by checking the actual code.

● Searched for 2 patterns, read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

● You're correct. The project-scoped .agent/knowledge.db files are legacy —
  they're only read once for migration purposes. The v5 schema moved to a
  single-database architecture where everything lives in one global knowledge.db
   file (at ~/.llm_harness/knowledge.db or wherever KNOWLEDGE_GLOBAL_DB points).
   Project isolation is handled by a scope column on every table row ('global'
  or 'project:{ProjectName}'), not by separate database files.

  So the Brain Viewer only needs to open one SQLite file. The project_root
  parameter the tools accept just sets the project_name for scope filtering and
  triggers a one-time legacy import if an old .agent/knowledge.db exists — it
  doesn't create or maintain a second database.

  Let me correct the architecture section:

  ---
  Section 1 (corrected): Architecture overview

  The app is a two-process system. A Python FastAPI backend reads the KG's
  single SQLite database directly (read-only, WAL mode) and serves a REST +
  WebSocket API. A React + Vite + TypeScript frontend renders the 3D graph using
   React Three Fiber.

  The KG lives in one file: ~/.llm_harness/knowledge.db (or the path in
  KNOWLEDGE_GLOBAL_DB). Project vs global data is distinguished by the scope
  column, not separate files. The backend can filter by scope if you want to
  visualize only one project's entities.

  The backend maintains its own sidecar SQLite database (brain_viewer.db) in the
   Brain_viewer project directory, storing computed node positions, layout
  hashes, and user preferences — never touching the KG database.

  For realtime mode, the backend polls the KG database every 1-2 seconds for
  rows with date_added newer than the last check, pushing new events to the
  frontend via WebSocket.

  Does this corrected architecture look right?

❯ yes, continue with the next section 

● Section 2: Layout engine and position persistence

  The layout system has two phases: initial computation and incremental updates.

  On first run (no sidecar DB yet), the backend fetches all entities, relations,
   and communities. It builds a graph structure and runs the layout pipeline:

  1. Community placement: each community gets a centroid position on a sphere,
  spaced to maximize inter-community distance. The centroid assignment is
  deterministic — communities are sorted by ID and placed using a Fibonacci
  sphere distribution (evenly spaced points on a sphere, no randomness).
  2. Intra-community refinement: within each community, entities are positioned
  near their community centroid. Embedding cosine similarity between entities
  controls attractive forces — similar entities sit closer. The force simulation
   uses d3-force-3d with a fixed seed (no Math.random()), so identical inputs
  always produce identical outputs.
  3. Global repulsion: a charge force keeps all nodes from overlapping, bounded
  within a configurable radius. Relations add weak attractive springs between
  connected nodes (on top of the community clustering).
  4. Convergence and persistence: the simulation runs until energy drops below a
   threshold (not a fixed iteration count — this avoids under/over-simulation).
  Final (x, y, z) positions are written to the sidecar DB's node_positions
  table, keyed by entity ID, alongside a structural hash — a SHA-256 of the
  sorted list of (entity_id, scope, community_id) tuples plus (subject_id, 
  predicate, object_id) relation triples.

  On subsequent loads, the backend compares the current structural hash against
  the persisted one. If they match, positions are served directly — zero
  computation. If they differ, it diffs the graph to find added/removed nodes
  and edges, seeds new nodes at their community centroid, and runs the
  simulation from the last stable positions (not from scratch). Only the
  neighborhood of changed nodes moves significantly; distant nodes stay nearly
  still.

  This guarantees: same graph state on Monday and Friday = identical visual.
  Changes only when the data actually changes.

  Does this approach to position stability feel right?

❯ yes, continue 

● Section 3: Frontend — 3D scene and interaction

  The React app has three main layers: the 3D canvas, the UI overlay, and the
  state manager.

  The 3D canvas uses React Three Fiber with @react-three/drei for camera
  controls (OrbitControls — zoom, pan, rotate all built-in). Each entity is a
  mesh instance positioned at its persisted (x, y, z). Relations are rendered as
   lines (or thin tubes for the sci-fi theme) connecting their subject and
  object nodes. To handle large graphs efficiently, nodes and edges use
  instanced rendering — one draw call for all nodes of the same type, rather
  than one per node. This keeps performance smooth up to several thousand
  entities.

  Node appearance encodes meaning: color maps to entity type (concept, method,
  parameter, tool, etc.), size maps to observation count (more observations =
  larger node), and opacity maps to verification status (human-verified nodes
  are fully opaque, unverified ones are slightly translucent). These mappings
  are defined per-theme so they adapt when the user switches visual preset.

  Interaction model: clicking a node selects it and opens a detail panel (a 2D
  overlay, not in 3D space) showing the entity's name, type, all observations
  with their severity/source/tags, and connected relations. Hovering highlights
  the node and its immediate neighbors + edges. Double-clicking a node enters
  focus mode — the camera smoothly animates to center on that node, and
  non-connected nodes fade to low opacity, letting you explore the local
  neighborhood. Pressing Escape or clicking empty space exits focus mode.

  The state manager uses Zustand — lightweight, no boilerplate, works well with
  R3F's render loop. It holds the graph data, selected node, camera state,
  active theme, replay state, and filter settings (filter by entity type, scope,
   severity, community).

  Does this interaction model cover what you had in mind?

❯ yes, continue 

● Section 4: Theme system

  The theme system is a JSON-driven configuration layer. Each theme defines:
  node colors per entity type, node material properties (emissive, metalness,
  roughness), edge style (line vs tube, color, opacity, glow), background (color
   or gradient), ambient/directional light settings, and post-processing effects
   (bloom, depth of field, tone mapping).

  Three built-in themes ship with the app:

  - Neural / sci-fi dark: black background, neon-glow nodes with bloom
  post-processing, luminous edge tubes with particle flow along them, subtle fog
   for depth. The "Brain Viewer" signature look.
  - Clean / minimal: neutral gray background, solid matte spheres, thin lines,
  no post-processing. Maximum readability, good for screenshots and
  presentations.
  - Organic / biological: dark warm background, soft translucent spheres with
  subsurface-scattering-like materials, pulsing edges that breathe gently, warm
  amber/coral/teal palette.

  Themes live in a themes/ directory as JSON files. The UI has a theme picker
  button (top-right corner) that cycles through available themes or opens a
  dropdown. Switching is instant — it swaps material properties and
  post-processing config without re-running the layout. The user's last-selected
   theme is persisted in the sidecar DB.

  Adding a custom theme means dropping a new JSON file in themes/ — no code
  changes. The schema is validated at load time, so malformed themes fail
  gracefully with a console warning and fall back to the default.

  Does this level of theme flexibility work, or do you want even deeper
  customization (like per-node color overrides or a live theme editor)?

❯ this is fine for now, continue 

● Section 5: Replay system and activity timeline

  The replay system reconstructs KG history from the date_added fields already
  present on every entity, observation, and relation row. The backend has a
  /api/timeline endpoint that queries all three tables, unions the results into
  a single chronological event stream, and returns entries like {timestamp, 
  event_type, entity_id, data} where event_type is one of ENTITY_CREATED,
  OBSERVATION_ADDED, RELATION_CREATED.

  The frontend has a timeline bar at the bottom of the screen — a horizontal
  scrubber showing the full time range of the KG's history. The user controls
  replay with play/pause, step forward/back, and a speed multiplier slider (from
   0.1x to 100x). At 1x, one second of real time = one second of replay. At
  100x, an hour of KG activity plays back in 36 seconds. This handles the common
   case where a burst of kg_extract calls creates 50 entities in 3 seconds — at
  slow speed you see each one spawn individually, at fast speed they bloom in
  together.

  Replay animations: when an entity-creation event fires, the node fades in from
   zero scale with a brief elastic bounce. When a relation appears, the edge
  draws itself from subject to object like a growing line. When an observation
  is added to an existing entity, the node briefly pulses with a glow ring whose
   color matches the observation severity (red for blocking, amber for major,
  blue for info). All animations use eased transitions — no teleporting.

  Realtime mode is replay with no end: the backend polls every 1-2 seconds, and
  new events are appended to the timeline and animated immediately. A subtle
  heartbeat indicator in the UI shows that realtime polling is active. The
  timeline bar extends rightward as new events arrive, and the viewport
  auto-follows unless the user has manually scrubbed to an earlier point.

  The timeline bar also serves as the activity log: clicking any point on it
  shows a tooltip with the events at that timestamp, and a collapsible side
  panel lists the full event log as a scrollable table with filters (by event
  type, entity type, time range).

  Does this replay/timeline design fit your vision?

❯ yes, but add one thing: an option, enabled by default, that allows to     
  remove the "empty times", which are the long time interval between two    
  operations. You must imagine that the operations on the kg are not        
  continuos: there are works sessions followed by pauses, by night sleep,   
  etc. therefore, on long time horizons would be difficult to play a proper 
   replay, because it the speed is set to high, the long pauses would be    
  correctly skipped but the operations would result too fast, while if the  
  speed is set to low, the operations would render correctly but the pauses 
   would be overkill. by trimming out the pauses, we can show only the      
  content that is genuinely interesting, which is the operations on the kg. 

● Excellent point. The replay system adds a "Compress idle time" toggle (on by
  default). When active, the backend preprocesses the event stream and collapses
   any gap longer than a configurable threshold (default: 60 seconds) down to a
  brief visual pause (e.g. 0.5 seconds of playback). The UI shows a subtle "skip
   marker" on the timeline bar at each compressed gap — a thin vertical line
  with a label like "⏭ 14h skipped" — so the user understands time was removed,
  not events.

  The threshold is adjustable via a small input next to the toggle: "Compress
  gaps longer than __ seconds." Setting it to 300 would preserve short
  coffee-break pauses but skip overnight gaps; setting it to 10 would make the
  replay ultra-dense, showing only back-to-back bursts of activity.

  When the toggle is off, the timeline reverts to real-time proportional spacing
   — the speed multiplier slider becomes the primary control again.

  This way the user gets the best of both worlds: compressed mode for watching
  "the story of the knowledge graph" as a fluid narrative, and uncompressed mode
   when the actual timing of operations matters (like debugging a session or
  understanding work patterns).

  I'll continue with the next section — the backend API design.

  ---
  Section 6: Backend API

  The FastAPI backend exposes a small, focused API. All reads go directly to the
   KG's SQLite file (opened read-only with WAL mode so there's no lock
  contention with the running MCP server).

  REST endpoints:
  - GET /api/graph — returns the full graph: entities, observations, relations,
  communities, and persisted node positions. Supports query params for scope
  filtering (?scope=global, ?scope=project:Brain_viewer). This is the main
  payload on app load.
  - GET /api/timeline — returns the chronological event stream. Accepts
  ?compress=true&gap_threshold=60 to return the compressed timeline. Also
  accepts ?since={iso_timestamp} for incremental fetches.
  - GET /api/entity/{id} — returns full detail for a single entity (all
  observations, relations, aliases). Used by the detail panel.
  - GET /api/status — returns KG stats (entity count, relation count, last
  modified timestamp, DB file size). Used by the UI header.
  - POST /api/layout/recompute — forces a full layout recomputation (for when
  the user wants to reset positions after major graph changes).

  WebSocket endpoint:
  - WS /ws/realtime — the backend polls the KG DB on a background thread every
  1-2 seconds, diffs against the last known state, and pushes new events as JSON
   messages. The frontend animates them in. The connection also carries layout
  position updates if new nodes triggered an incremental simulation.

  The sidecar DB (brain_viewer.db) stores: node_positions(entity_id, x, y, z, 
  layout_hash), user_preferences(key, value) for theme selection and UI state,
  and timeline_cache(hash, compressed_json) to avoid recomputing the compressed
  timeline on every load.

  Does this API surface feel complete, or is there something you'd want to query
   that isn't covered?

❯ yes, continue 

● Section 7: Project structure and tech stack

  The project follows a monorepo layout with clear frontend/backend separation:

  Brain_viewer/
  ├── backend/
  │   ├── pyproject.toml          # uv-managed, Python 3.11
  │   ├── src/
  │   │   └── brain_viewer/
  │   │       ├── __init__.py
  │   │       ├── main.py         # FastAPI app, CORS, startup
  │   │       ├── api.py          # REST endpoints
  │   │       ├── ws.py           # WebSocket realtime handler
  │   │       ├── db.py           # KG SQLite reader (read-only)
  │   │       ├── layout.py       # Force simulation, hashing, persistence
  │   │       ├── timeline.py     # Event stream builder, gap compression
  │   │       └── sidecar.py      # brain_viewer.db management
  │   └── brain_viewer.db         # sidecar (created at runtime)
  ├── frontend/
  │   ├── package.json            # Vite + React + TypeScript
  │   ├── src/
  │   │   ├── main.tsx
  │   │   ├── App.tsx
  │   │   ├── store/              # Zustand stores
  │   │   │   ├── graphStore.ts   # entities, relations, positions
  │   │   │   ├── replayStore.ts  # timeline, playback state
  │   │   │   └── uiStore.ts     # theme, selection, filters
  │   │   ├── components/
  │   │   │   ├── Canvas3D.tsx    # R3F canvas wrapper
  │   │   │   ├── GraphScene.tsx  # nodes + edges + camera
  │   │   │   ├── NodeMesh.tsx    # instanced node rendering
  │   │   │   ├── EdgeLines.tsx   # instanced edge rendering
  │   │   │   ├── DetailPanel.tsx # entity info sidebar
  │   │   │   ├── Timeline.tsx    # replay bar + controls
  │   │   │   ├── ThemePicker.tsx # theme switcher
  │   │   │   └── Filters.tsx     # scope/type/severity filters
  │   │   ├── themes/             # JSON theme definitions
  │   │   │   ├── neural.json
  │   │   │   ├── clean.json
  │   │   │   └── organic.json
  │   │   ├── hooks/              # useGraphData, useRealtime, useReplay
  │   │   └── lib/                # API client, layout math helpers
  │   └── index.html
  ├── docs/
  │   └── plans/
  └── README.md

  Key dependencies — backend: fastapi, uvicorn, numpy (embedding similarity).
  Frontend: react, @react-three/fiber, @react-three/drei,
  @react-three/postprocessing (bloom/effects), d3-force-3d (layout simulation),
  zustand, tailwindcss. No heavy ML libraries in the frontend — all
  embedding/clustering computation stays in the backend.

  The backend venv lives at C:\Users\matti\venvs\brain_viewer\ per your
  convention. A single npm run dev + uvicorn pair starts the whole thing during
  development.

  That's the last structural section. Ready to see the full design document, or
  do you want to adjust anything before I write it out?